iv sarraca.

may be thought to have erred in not excluding the case
of Edwin v. William, p. 1, as properly coming within
this class. See l Brady‚ History of Eugland, la, 270 ;
l Ellis, Introd. to Doomsday, 56, 57 (ed. 1833). But
without relying upon the entire faithfulness of the
record of the case, or upon the fact that it has been
treated as a genuine monument by Spelman, Cohe, Dug-
dale, and Wilkins, it was thought best to print it. The
account presents a typical view of the new procedure in
England‚ and this directly, as it professes, after the
establishment of the Norman power. The plaintiff offers
proof of his claim in the common formula, “ as the king
may direct ;” and the king directs an inquisition,-thc
procedure which he had just brought frorn the Continent.
And with regard to the claim itself, it is in perfect
keeping with the poliey of the Conqueror to conciliate
and protect such as had not taken up arms against him,
and were not likely to be dangerous subjecta. Το this
extent the record may he trusted, whatever the truth
maybe as to the time when it was made up, oras to

the parties who figure in it. For no other purpose is it
introduced in this book.

Two difficulties arise with regard to the ease in other
aspecta. The record states that the kingissued a general
writ in favour of all who, like Edwin, had maintained
neutrality in the contest with Harold, commanding that
their lands should be restored to them if wrongsully
held, “ and that they should thereafter be called Drengs.”
If this was intended to suggest the origin of dreng
service, it is not entitled to credit. This species of
allodial tenure, for such it appears to have been, was
of Danish-Norse origin, and even in England probably
antedated the Conquest. Professor Stubbs quotes a

 

